README.md, before:

[<img width="250" alt="ImageKit.io" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript/master/assets/imagekit-light-logo.svg"/>](https://imagekit.io)

# ImageKit.io JavaScript SDK

![gzip size](https://img.badgesize.io/https://unpkg.com/imagekit-javascript/dist/imagekit.min.js?compression=gzip&label=gzip)
![brotli size](https://img.badgesize.io/https://unpkg.com/imagekit-javascript/dist/imagekit.min.js?compression=brotli&label=brotli)
![Node CI](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript/workflows/Node%20CI/badge.svg)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/imagekit-javascript)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/imagekit-javascript) 
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/imagekitio?label=Follow&style=social)](https://twitter.com/ImagekitIo)

Lightweight JavaScript SDK for generating optimized URLs for images and videos, and for handling file uploads via ImageKit.

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Initialization](#initialization)
- [URL Generation](#url-generation)
  - [Basic URL Generation](#basic-url-generation)
  - [Advanced URL Generation Examples](#advanced-url-generation-examples)
  - [Supported Transformations](#supported-transformations)
  - [Handling Unsupported Transformations](#handling-unsupported-transformations)
- [File Upload](#file-upload)
  - [Basic Upload Example](#basic-upload-example)
  - [Promise-based Upload Example](#promise-based-upload-example)
- [Demo Application](#demo-application)
- [Changelog](#changelog)

## Installation

### Using npm
Install the SDK via npm:
```bash
npm install imagekit-javascript --save
# or
yarn add imagekit-javascript
```

Then import ImageKit:
```js
import ImageKit from "imagekit-javascript";
// or with CommonJS:
const ImageKit = require("imagekit-javascript");
```

### Using CDN
You can also use the global CDN:

Download a specific version:
```
https://unpkg.com/imagekit-javascript@1.3.0/dist/imagekit.min.js
```
Or for the latest version, remove the version number:
```
https://unpkg.com/imagekit-javascript/dist/imagekit.min.js
```
And include it in your HTML:
```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://unpkg.com/imagekit-javascript/dist/imagekit.min.js"></script>
```

## Initialization

Initialize the SDK by specifying your URL endpoint. You can obtain your URL endpoint from [https://imagekit.io/dashboard/url-endpoints](https://imagekit.io/dashboard/url-endpoints) and your public API key from [https://imagekit.io/dashboard/developer/api-keys](https://imagekit.io/dashboard/developer/api-keys). For URL generation:
```js
var imagekit = new ImageKit({
    urlEndpoint: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id"
});
```
For client-side file uploads, include your public key:
```js
var imagekit = new ImageKit({
    publicKey: "your_public_api_key",
    urlEndpoint: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id",
});
```
*Note: Never include your private key in client-side code. If provided, the SDK throws an error.*

## URL Generation

The SDK’s `.url()` method enables you to generate optimized image and video URLs with a variety of transformations.

### Basic URL Generation

1. **Using an Image Path with a URL Endpoint**
    ```js
    var imageURL = imagekit.url({
        path: "/default-image.jpg",
        urlEndpoint: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/endpoint/",
        transformation: [{
            "height": "300",
            "width": "400"
        }]
    });
    ```
    *Result Example:*
    ```
    https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/endpoint/tr:h-300,w-400/default-image.jpg
    ```

2. **Using a Full Image URL (src)**
    ```js
    var imageURL = imagekit.url({
        src: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/endpoint/default-image.jpg",
        transformation: [{
            "height": "300",
            "width": "400"
        }]
    });
    ```
    *Result Example:*
    ```
    https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/endpoint/default-image.jpg?tr=h-300%2Cw-400
    ```

### Advanced URL Generation Examples

#### Chained Transformations
Apply multiple transformations by passing an array:
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
    path: "/default-image.jpg",
    transformation: [{
        "height": "300",
        "width": "400"
    }, {
        "rotation": 90
    }],
    transformationPosition: "query" // Use query parameter for transformations
});
```
*Result Example:*
```
https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/default-image.jpg?tr=h-300%2Cw-400%3Art-90
```

#### Overlays and Effects
*Text Overlay Example:*
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
    src: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/default-image.jpg",
    transformation: [{
        "width": 400,
        "height": 300,
        "raw": "l-text,i-Imagekit,fs-50,l-end"
    }]
});
```
*Image Overlay Example:*
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
    src: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/default-image.jpg",
    transformation: [{
        "width": 400,
        "height": 300,
        "raw": "l-image,i-default-image.jpg,w-100,b-10_CDDC39,l-end"
    }]
});
```

#### AI and Advanced Transformations
*Background Removal:*
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
  path: "/sample-image.jpg",
  transformation: [{
    aiRemoveBackground: true
  }]
});
```
*Upscaling:*
```js
var upscaledURL = imagekit.url({
  path: "/sample-image.jpg",
  transformation: [{
    aiUpscale: true
  }]
});
```
*Drop Shadow:*
```js
var dropShadowURL = imagekit.url({
  path: "/sample-image.jpg",
  transformation: [{
    aiDropShadow: "az-45"
  }]
});
```

#### Arithmetic Expressions in Transformations
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
    src: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/default-image.jpg",
    transformation: [{
        "width": "iw_div_4",
        "height": "ih_div_2",
        "border": "cw_mul_0.05_yellow"
    }]
});
```

### Supported Transformations

The SDK gives a name to each transformation parameter e.g. height for h and width for w parameter. It makes your code more readable. If the property does not match any of the following supported options, it is added as it is.

If you want to generate transformations in your application and add them to the URL as it is, use the raw parameter.

Check ImageKit [transformation documentation](https://imagekit.io/docs/transformations) for more details.

| Transformation Name        | URL Parameter                                                 |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| width                      | w                                                             |
| height                     | h                                                             |
| aspectRatio                | ar                                                            |
| quality                    | q                                                             |
| aiRemoveBackground         | e-bgremove (ImageKit powered)                                 |
| aiRemoveBackgroundExternal | e-removedotbg (Using third party)                             |
| aiUpscale                  | e-upscale                                                     |
| aiRetouch                  | e-retouch                                                     |
| aiVariation                | e-genvar                                                      |
| aiDropShadow               | e-dropshadow                                                  |
| aiChangeBackground         | e-changebg                                                    |
| crop                       | c                                                             |
| cropMode                   | cm                                                            |
| x                          | x                                                             |
| y                          | y                                                             |
| xCenter                    | xc                                                            |
| yCenter                    | yc                                                            |
| focus                      | fo                                                            |
| format                     | f                                                             |
| radius                     | r                                                             |
| background                 | bg                                                            |
| border                     | b                                                             |
| rotation                   | rt                                                            |
| blur                       | bl                                                            |
| named                      | n                                                             |
| dpr                        | dpr                                                           |
| progressive                | pr                                                            |
| lossless                   | lo                                                            |
| trim                       | t                                                             |
| metadata                   | md                                                            |
| colorProfile               | cp                                                            |
| defaultImage               | di                                                            |
| original                   | orig                                                          |
| videoCodec                 | vc                                                            |
| audioCodec                 | ac                                                            |
| grayscale                  | e-grayscale                                                   |
| contrastStretch            | e-contrast                                                    |
| shadow                     | e-shadow                                                      |
| sharpen                    | e-sharpen                                                     |
| unsharpMask                | e-usm                                                         |
| gradient                   | e-gradient                                                    |
| flip                       | fl                                                            |
| opacity                    | o                                                             |
| zoom                       | z                                                             |
| page                       | pg                                                            |
| startOffset                | so                                                            |
| endOffset                  | eo                                                            |
| duration                   | du                                                            |
| streamingResolutions       | sr                                                            |
| raw                        | The string provided in raw will be added in the URL as it is. |

### Handling Unsupported Transformations

If you specify a transformation parameter that is not explicitly supported by the SDK, it is added “as-is” in the generated URL. This provides flexibility for using new or custom transformations without waiting for an SDK update.

For example:
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
    path: "/test_path.jpg",
    transformation: [{
        "newparam": "cool"
    }]
});
// Generated URL: https://ik.imagekit.io/test_url_endpoint/tr:newparam-cool/test_path.jpg
```

## File Upload

The SDK offers a simple interface via the `.upload()` method to upload files to the ImageKit Media Library. This method requires the following:
- **file** (mandatory)
- **fileName** (mandatory)
- Security parameters: **signature**, **token**, and **expire**

Before invoking the upload, generate the necessary security parameters as per the [ImageKit Upload API documentation](https://imagekit.io/docs/api-reference/upload-file/upload-file#how-to-implement-client-side-file-upload).

### Basic Upload Example

Below is an HTML form example that uses a callback for handling the upload response:

```html
<form action="#" onsubmit="upload(); return false;">
    <input type="file" id="file1" />
    <input type="submit" />
</form>
<script src="../dist/imagekit.js"></script>
<script>
    var imagekit = new ImageKit({
        publicKey: "your_public_api_key",
        urlEndpoint: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id",
    });
    
    function upload() {
        var file = document.getElementById("file1");
        imagekit.upload({
            file: file.files[0],
            fileName: "abc1.jpg",
            token: 'generated_token',
            signature: 'generated_signature',
            expire: 'generated_expire'
        }, function(err, result) {
            if(err){
                console.error(err);
            } else {
                console.log(result);
            }
        });
    }
</script>
```

### Promise-based Upload Example

You can also use promises for a cleaner asynchronous approach:
```js
imagekit.upload({
    file: file.files[0],
    fileName: "abc1.jpg",
    token: 'generated_token',
    signature: 'generated_signature',
    expire: 'generated_expire'
}).then(result => {
    console.log(result);
}).catch(error => {
    console.error(error);
});
```

## Demo Application

For the fastest way to get started, check out the demo application in the [samples/sample-app](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript/tree/master/samples/sample-app) folder.

To run the demo locally:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript.git
cd imagekit-javascript
```
Then, create a `.env` file in the `samples/sample-app` directory based on `sample.env` and provide your `PRIVATE_KEY`, `PUBLIC_KEY`, and `URL_ENDPOINT` from your ImageKit dashboard. Finally, start the demo:
```bash
yarn startSampleApp
```

## Changelog

For a detailed history of changes, please refer to [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

docs: update README with quick demo references and remove outdated instructions

README.md, after:

[<img width="250" alt="ImageKit.io" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript/master/assets/imagekit-light-logo.svg"/>](https://imagekit.io)

# ImageKit.io JavaScript SDK

![gzip size](https://img.badgesize.io/https://unpkg.com/imagekit-javascript/dist/imagekit.min.js?compression=gzip&label=gzip)
![brotli size](https://img.badgesize.io/https://unpkg.com/imagekit-javascript/dist/imagekit.min.js?compression=brotli&label=brotli)
![Node CI](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript/workflows/Node%20CI/badge.svg)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/imagekit-javascript)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/imagekit-javascript) 
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/imagekitio?label=Follow&style=social)](https://twitter.com/ImagekitIo)

Lightweight JavaScript SDK for generating optimized URLs for images and videos, and for handling file uploads via ImageKit.

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Initialization](#initialization)
- [URL Generation](#url-generation)
  - [Basic URL Generation](#basic-url-generation)
  - [Advanced URL Generation Examples](#advanced-url-generation-examples)
  - [Supported Transformations](#supported-transformations)
  - [Handling Unsupported Transformations](#handling-unsupported-transformations)
- [File Upload](#file-upload)
  - [Basic Upload Example](#basic-upload-example)
  - [Promise-based Upload Example](#promise-based-upload-example)
- [Demo Application](#demo-application)
- [Changelog](#changelog)

## Installation

### Using npm
Install the SDK via npm:
```bash
npm install imagekit-javascript --save
# or
yarn add imagekit-javascript
```

Then import ImageKit:
```js
import ImageKit from "imagekit-javascript";
// or with CommonJS:
const ImageKit = require("imagekit-javascript");
```

### Using CDN
You can also use the global CDN:

Download a specific version:
```
https://unpkg.com/imagekit-javascript@1.3.0/dist/imagekit.min.js
```
Or for the latest version, remove the version number:
```
https://unpkg.com/imagekit-javascript/dist/imagekit.min.js
```
And include it in your HTML:
```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://unpkg.com/imagekit-javascript/dist/imagekit.min.js"></script>
```

## Initialization

Initialize the SDK by specifying your URL endpoint. You can obtain your URL endpoint from [https://imagekit.io/dashboard/url-endpoints](https://imagekit.io/dashboard/url-endpoints) and your public API key from [https://imagekit.io/dashboard/developer/api-keys](https://imagekit.io/dashboard/developer/api-keys). For URL generation:
```js
var imagekit = new ImageKit({
    urlEndpoint: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id"
});
```
For client-side file uploads, include your public key:
```js
var imagekit = new ImageKit({
    publicKey: "your_public_api_key",
    urlEndpoint: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id",
});
```
*Note: Never include your private key in client-side code. If provided, the SDK throws an error.*

## URL Generation

The SDK’s `.url()` method enables you to generate optimized image and video URLs with a variety of transformations.

### Basic URL Generation

1. **Using an Image Path with a URL Endpoint**
    ```js
    var imageURL = imagekit.url({
        path: "/default-image.jpg",
        urlEndpoint: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/endpoint/",
        transformation: [{
            "height": "300",
            "width": "400"
        }]
    });
    ```
    *Result Example:*
    ```
    https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/endpoint/tr:h-300,w-400/default-image.jpg
    ```

2. **Using a Full Image URL (src)**
    ```js
    var imageURL = imagekit.url({
        src: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/endpoint/default-image.jpg",
        transformation: [{
            "height": "300",
            "width": "400"
        }]
    });
    ```
    *Result Example:*
    ```
    https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/endpoint/default-image.jpg?tr=h-300%2Cw-400
    ```

### Advanced URL Generation Examples

#### Chained Transformations
Apply multiple transformations by passing an array:
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
    path: "/default-image.jpg",
    transformation: [{
        "height": "300",
        "width": "400"
    }, {
        "rotation": 90
    }],
    transformationPosition: "query" // Use query parameter for transformations
});
```
*Result Example:*
```
https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/default-image.jpg?tr=h-300%2Cw-400%3Art-90
```

#### Overlays and Effects
*Text Overlay Example:*
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
    src: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/default-image.jpg",
    transformation: [{
        "width": 400,
        "height": 300,
        "raw": "l-text,i-Imagekit,fs-50,l-end"
    }]
});
```
*Image Overlay Example:*
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
    src: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/default-image.jpg",
    transformation: [{
        "width": 400,
        "height": 300,
        "raw": "l-image,i-default-image.jpg,w-100,b-10_CDDC39,l-end"
    }]
});
```

#### AI and Advanced Transformations
*Background Removal:*
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
  path: "/sample-image.jpg",
  transformation: [{
    aiRemoveBackground: true
  }]
});
```
*Upscaling:*
```js
var upscaledURL = imagekit.url({
  path: "/sample-image.jpg",
  transformation: [{
    aiUpscale: true
  }]
});
```
*Drop Shadow:*
```js
var dropShadowURL = imagekit.url({
  path: "/sample-image.jpg",
  transformation: [{
    aiDropShadow: "az-45"
  }]
});
```

#### Arithmetic Expressions in Transformations
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
    src: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/default-image.jpg",
    transformation: [{
        "width": "iw_div_4",
        "height": "ih_div_2",
        "border": "cw_mul_0.05_yellow"
    }]
});
```

### Supported Transformations

The SDK gives a name to each transformation parameter e.g. height for h and width for w parameter. It makes your code more readable. If the property does not match any of the following supported options, it is added as it is.

If you want to generate transformations in your application and add them to the URL as it is, use the raw parameter.

Check ImageKit [transformation documentation](https://imagekit.io/docs/transformations) for more details.

| Transformation Name        | URL Parameter                                                 |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| width                      | w                                                             |
| height                     | h                                                             |
| aspectRatio                | ar                                                            |
| quality                    | q                                                             |
| aiRemoveBackground         | e-bgremove (ImageKit powered)                                 |
| aiRemoveBackgroundExternal | e-removedotbg (Using third party)                             |
| aiUpscale                  | e-upscale                                                     |
| aiRetouch                  | e-retouch                                                     |
| aiVariation                | e-genvar                                                      |
| aiDropShadow               | e-dropshadow                                                  |
| aiChangeBackground         | e-changebg                                                    |
| crop                       | c                                                             |
| cropMode                   | cm                                                            |
| x                          | x                                                             |
| y                          | y                                                             |
| xCenter                    | xc                                                            |
| yCenter                    | yc                                                            |
| focus                      | fo                                                            |
| format                     | f                                                             |
| radius                     | r                                                             |
| background                 | bg                                                            |
| border                     | b                                                             |
| rotation                   | rt                                                            |
| blur                       | bl                                                            |
| named                      | n                                                             |
| dpr                        | dpr                                                           |
| progressive                | pr                                                            |
| lossless                   | lo                                                            |
| trim                       | t                                                             |
| metadata                   | md                                                            |
| colorProfile               | cp                                                            |
| defaultImage               | di                                                            |
| original                   | orig                                                          |
| videoCodec                 | vc                                                            |
| audioCodec                 | ac                                                            |
| grayscale                  | e-grayscale                                                   |
| contrastStretch            | e-contrast                                                    |
| shadow                     | e-shadow                                                      |
| sharpen                    | e-sharpen                                                     |
| unsharpMask                | e-usm                                                         |
| gradient                   | e-gradient                                                    |
| flip                       | fl                                                            |
| opacity                    | o                                                             |
| zoom                       | z                                                             |
| page                       | pg                                                            |
| startOffset                | so                                                            |
| endOffset                  | eo                                                            |
| duration                   | du                                                            |
| streamingResolutions       | sr                                                            |
| raw                        | The string provided in raw will be added in the URL as it is. |

### Handling Unsupported Transformations

If you specify a transformation parameter that is not explicitly supported by the SDK, it is added “as-is” in the generated URL. This provides flexibility for using new or custom transformations without waiting for an SDK update.

For example:
```js
var imageURL = imagekit.url({
    path: "/test_path.jpg",
    transformation: [{
        "newparam": "cool"
    }]
});
// Generated URL: https://ik.imagekit.io/test_url_endpoint/tr:newparam-cool/test_path.jpg
```

## File Upload

The SDK offers a simple interface via the `.upload()` method to upload files to the ImageKit Media Library. This method requires the following:
- **file** (mandatory)
- **fileName** (mandatory)
- Security parameters: **signature**, **token**, and **expire**

Before invoking the upload, generate the necessary security parameters as per the [ImageKit Upload API documentation](https://imagekit.io/docs/api-reference/upload-file/upload-file#how-to-implement-client-side-file-upload).

### Basic Upload Example

Below is an HTML form example that uses a callback for handling the upload response:

```html
<form action="#" onsubmit="upload(); return false;">
    <input type="file" id="file1" />
    <input type="submit" />
</form>
<script src="../dist/imagekit.js"></script>
<script>
    var imagekit = new ImageKit({
        publicKey: "your_public_api_key",
        urlEndpoint: "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id",
    });
    
    function upload() {
        var file = document.getElementById("file1");
        imagekit.upload({
            file: file.files[0],
            fileName: "abc1.jpg",
            token: 'generated_token',
            signature: 'generated_signature',
            expire: 'generated_expire'
        }, function(err, result) {
            if(err){
                console.error(err);
            } else {
                console.log(result);
            }
        });
    }
</script>
```

### Promise-based Upload Example

You can also use promises for a cleaner asynchronous approach:
```js
imagekit.upload({
    file: file.files[0],
    fileName: "abc1.jpg",
    token: 'generated_token',
    signature: 'generated_signature',
    expire: 'generated_expire'
}).then(result => {
    console.log(result);
}).catch(error => {
    console.error(error);
});
```

## Demo Application

For a quick demonstration of the SDK features, refer to our test examples:
- URL Generation examples can be found in [test/url-generation.js](./test/url-generation.js)
- File Upload examples can be found in [test/upload.js](./test/upload.js)

## Changelog

For a detailed history of changes, please refer to [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md).
